# Kali on a Steam Deck

Yes, that's right. You can run Kali Linux on a Steam Deck. 
And yes, it can do everyting just about you'd expect it to * *without* * uninstalling the original SteamOS!

## Installation Process

### Requirements

 1 Steam Deck
 1 USB With a Kali Linux Bootable iso
 1 Empty MicroSD Card
 1 MicroSD to USB Converter
 1 USB-C to USB-A Hub (or any other way of plugging 2 usb's into a single usb-c port)
 1 Keyboard

### Getting Started

 1. To begin, use a software such as [Rufus](https://rufus.ie/en/) to create a bootable kali iso on the USB.
    **NOTE:** While flashing the OS, also check to ensure your MicroSD is empty and exFAT formatted. (other formattings may work, but have not been tested)

 2. Plug Both the USB and the MicroSD (inside the MicroSD->USB converter) into the USB-C Port. 
    ***THE MicroSD PORT ON THE BOTTOM WILL NOT WORK FOR THIS***
 
 3. Ensure the Steam Deck is completely powered off
 
 4. Press and release the Steam deck power button while holding the Volume Down (-) button.
 
 5. Select KaliOS from the boot menu and continue through the install
    **NOTE:** A keyboard is required for the initial boot screen, but after selecting graphical install, you may use the controller buttons!
    
 6. Use the attached keyboard to enter your username, password, etc...
 
 7. When selecting a partition, select the entire volume of the EMPTY MicroSD card inserted into one of the USB Slots and continue with the installation.

 8. After you have finished installing, power off the Steam Deck, remove all USB's, and plug the MicroSD card into the actual MicroSD card slot
 
 9. Hold the Volume Down (-) button while powering it back on and select kali again from the boot menu.

 10. When prompted to log in, if you don't have a keyboard attached, you will need to touch the text box on the screen rather than clicking using the trackpad to pop up the onscreen keyboard.
 
 11. You should now have a fully functioning Kali Linux machine running on an ultra-portable Steam Deck without removing the original SteamOS!




## Benchmarks

### Performance 

While the Steam Deck is rated to have a "1060 equivalent GPU", it greatly suffers while doing non-gaming tasks. This is likely due to the custom combined GPU and CPU.
In this repo you will find benchmark.txt which is a benchmarking file generated by running 
`hashcat -b`

### Usability

While the idea of having a Steam Deck to replace a laptop seems like a great idea for increasing portability or remaining "inconspicuous", it doesn't come without its drawbacks.

The first major drawback is the lack of a keyboard. I currently use [Onboard](https://launchpad.net/onboard) for a general keyboard. While it * *usually* * works great, it can get very tedious using an onscreen keyboard when typing many/longer commands. The keyboard also persists through the lockscreen after suspending the steamdeck, so if you have it positioned in the center of the screen, you will be typing with the lockscreen keyboard and the Onboard keyboard simultaneously.
